okay so now
look at engrams and how they relate to
regular languages so one important point
that I would like to mention here is
that engrams are very similar to regular
languages in fact HMMs are equivalent to
weighted finite state transducers which
have been used in some of the earlier
papers on Paris speech tagging just the
same way as hmm now we're going to talk
more about regular languages in a
separate lecture so stay tuned about
that so one thing that you need to know
about Engram models is that they can be
considered to be generative models so we
can look at the unit ground model first
the algorithm is very straightforward
you generate the word from the
distribution of Union grams and then you
generate the next one and then you stop
when you generate the end of the
sentence symbol /s so this is
essentially what a unigram model looks
like we have W 1 W 2 then W T and all
the rest of the words in the sentence
until W n in the final symbol this is
different from a background model in the
background model we have to generate
first a special symbol to start the
sentence so that we can have a
conditional probability for the next
word then we're going to generate the
next word based on its probability given
that s has been generated then we
generate the second word based on the
first one and so and then again we stop
when we reach the end of the sentence so
the graphical model looks very different
though it looks like this we have
conditional probabilities between every
pair of words until the end so one
important engineering trick that I would
like to mention briefly so the maximum
likelihood values that we estimate for
the probabilities are often on the order
of 10 to the minus 6 or even less
sometimes as little as 10 to the minus
12 when you multiply many of those
numbers for example in a sentence with
20 words you may have to multiply as
many as 20 values so you would get a
number on the order of 10 to the minus
120 power this is a really tiny number
and in most computers it would lead to
arithmetic underflow and therefore it
will be rounded down to zero therefore
avoiding any work that you have done so
far so to avoid this problem
there's one important engineering trick
that you can use can you think what it
is and I'll give you the answer in a
second so the answer is to use
logarithms specifically base 10
logarithms instead of having something
like 10 to the minus 6 power we'll get a
number like minus 6 instead of
multiplying probabilities we're going to
add the logarithms of the probabilities
and then at the end if we need to we can
always exponentiate back and get into
the normal space so we have some like
this 10 to the minus 6 because minus 6
we use the sums and then we're done so
this concludes the first part of
language modeling stay tuned for the
next one